>> Scott Moss: I think we covered all
the things that I wanted to cover,
what's last then is just for
me kind of just to go through and
tell you some of the next things I
think you should be looking at and
what you should maybe build or
learn with Next.js.
Because what I taught you here was
probably like somewhere between 65
to 75% of everything, but that is like
all you would need to build anything,
everything else is like
special use cases for.
Nobody's gonna use 100% of Next.js,
so that's not the goal,
most of the time you're sitting at like 60
to 70% of what they offer you because it
does such a good job, and everything
else is just like specialized stuff.
So you know more than enough to build
something, but I wanna go through and
kind of just talk about just some of the
things that I've learned that I think is
really cool.
So I've talked about this a little bit,
but definitely look up fluid
compute with Next.js,
they have a whole video and animations and
graphics, talking about it, so
highly recommend checking that out.
It's really cool, I recommend looking
into serverless databases a little more,
if you don't have that, if you're gonna
be deploying on Vercel with Next.js,
you definitely wanna look into
having a serverless database.
You're gonna run into problems,
I was one of the first,
like I remember when AWS
launched Serverless and
at that conference in Vercel or
I'm sorry, that conference in Vegas.
And I tried it like, this is really cool,
this was back in like 2016,
2017, something like that, and
then we got absolutely bodied by our,
we were using Mongo database.
The fact that like we just could not have
a database connection in a serverless
environment, so
it was kind of like pointless.
And then we made an express server whose
job was to sit in front of our MongoDB and
use HTTP as a mechanism to
transport database commands.
So we made a serverless database and
it was really bad because we didn't know
how to make databases, but it's funny
that that's how these products are today.
It's like billion dollar products that
are serverless databases which are HTTPs
sitting in front of a database, so
highly recommend looking into a serverless
database if you're gonna be using
Next.js and Vercel, things like that.
Other things to look into would be,
everything else is pretty straightforward,
I think, I don't think
there's anything that's like,
super crazy with Next.js, let me think.
Everything is pretty straightforward,
I think the documentation is really good,
all the other stuff is so
unique and so specific,
I don't think you really need to look
into it unless you have the problem.
So from here, I would say find a project
that challenges you enough that
you definitely can't do it without
looking things up, getting help,
doing some research, and
like, go build that.
Go build a full stack thing,
cause like, now you have to,
like you took this course, but
now you have to solidify what you learn.
And the best way to do that,
I think, is like,
just, you gotta go make
something as fast as possible,
otherwise you'll just forget a lot of the
stuff because it's muscle memory, right?
So go make something, go make something
cool, something you always wanted to do,
and use Next.js, use Vercel and have
fun, and that's pretty much how I learned.
I just started making stuff, I started
getting into the GitHub comments,
I started looking at the docs, started
talking to the people making this, and
next thing, it's like,
I can't live without it.
So pretty cool framework and yeah, that's
all that I have, well, thanks for coming,
hope you guys feel empowered to go forward
with Next.js and build really cool stuff.
If you end up building some cool stuff,
tag me, we'd love to see it,
love to give feedback if you need any,
but yeah, I mean, the path is go
build something slightly uncomfortable,
not too crazy, just slightly crazy.
And progressively get harder and harder
and harder, and next thing you know,
you'll know this stuff pretty well,
so thanks for coming, thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]